JMUparking
==========
Problem Statement

College students are constantly putting things off until the last minute. From waiting until the day before a project is due to start it, to leaving for class at the last possible second. Students are always on a time crunch. By creating an app that allows JMU students to see how many parking spaces are available at each parking deck, students can manage their time even better. Before the user even gets in their car, they can open the app and quickly view their options. This means they can leave later, allowing them more time on the project they put off until the last minute. 


Social Context Analysis

By creating an app that helps people decide where they want to park before they leave their house, there are a couple possibilities of how society will be affected.  Port Republic Road and Reservoir Street are two of the most congested roads in Harrisonburg, consisting mostly of students from JMU.  By allowing students to have the option of knowing where to go before they leave, it could help alleviate some traffic, since people know exactly where they want to go.  Students won’t have to turn around if they find out a parking deck is full, because they’ll already know it’s full.  This means that everyone is able to save time driving, and could even help prevent potential car accidents.
This app could also go the other way, causing more traffic around the campus.  If all the users look at the app around the same time and all decide on going to the same parking deck, traffic could easily increase.  This means that people will have to spend more time in their vehicles and run a greater risk of being late to class if you’re a student, or to your destination if you’re a Harrisonburg native.  This could also mean more car accidents since there will be more traffic.


Scenarios

Jane is sophomore at JMU.  She bought a parking pass and is annoyed that it seems like everytime she has to go to her class at 10:10am, she can never find a parking spot.  Her class is in ISAT and she comes to campus via Reservoir Street and University Blvd.  This means that she arrives on campus near the open parking area at Festival and Rose library.  She often spends several minutes driving up and down the rows only to find that all the spots are already taken, or people are waiting to take someone elses spot.  She doesn't want to run the risk of going to Champions Parking Deck since it is about a five minute drive with car and pedestrian traffic.  Suddenly Jane remembers that she has the JMU Parking App, so she can check to see if there are any spots open in Champions.  She quickly opens the app and sees that there are 56 spots open, so she should be able to get there in time to snag a spot and catch a bus up to ISAT in order to make it to her class on time.  She makes her way to Champions, finds a spot on the fourth floor and walks to the bus stop at Hanson and makes it to her class with two minutes to spare.

Johnny is the kind of guy who leaves at the last minute for everything.  If he doesn't have to show up early for something, he's going to be walking in with little to no time to spare.  However, when it comes to parking on campus, he always seems to be late for class because he couldn't find a parking spot in time.  Sometimes he doesn't even go to class because he wastes so much time looking for a parking spot that he gives up and goes home.  But today he learned about the JMU Parking App and five minutes before he is ready to leave for class, he checks the app and sees that the only open parking deck is Grace Street Parking Garage.  It currently has 31 open spots, which are likely to be taken in the next ten to fifteen minutes.  He knows he has to get going, and now.  As he gets in his car, he checks the app one more time and sees that there are now 59 spots available.  "People must be leaving from class," he thinks to himself.  Turns out there was no need to rush because spots were becoming available quicker than they were being taken, but at least Johnny knew he was going to make it to class on time today.

Ashley is on her way to class at JMU.  Her class starts in eight minutes and she knows it takes her five minutes just to drive to campus.  She is running behind today because she procrastinated her project that is due at the beggining of the class today.  Ashley has no time to spare, so jumps in her car and pulls up the JMU Parking App.  She usually has to park in the Convocation center parking area, but if she does that today, there is no chance she'll make it on time and be able to turn in her project.  Her class is in Moody hall and the only way she'll make it to class on time is if she can park in the Warsaw or Grace Street parking deck.  Normally she wouldn't risk going to either of those parking decks because if they're full, it takes too long to drive back to Convo and get to class on time.  Luckily she has the parking app and is able to see that Warsaw has 77 open spots right now.  That means she'll be able to make it to class just in the nick of time.  The JMU parking app has saved the day for Ashley, as she walks into class, project in hand, with less than a minute to spare.
